all right crystal what's on your radar
well last week protesters storm the
Michigan State Capitol to protest that
state's lockdown during particular ire
was Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer
who's aggressive lockdown stance
triggered a particularly virulent
backlash now I am always pretty
reluctant to draw any broad conclusions
over any particular group of activists
or protesters because as you know media
is certain to elevate the most obnoxious
offensive or stupid members of the group
in order to dismiss the entirety of the
exercise but let's just say this group
of folks didn't particularly put their
best foot forward
the rally included the presence of an
anti-government militia ostentatiously
brandishing weapons a video went viral
of two white children doing a dance
routine while one of them donned a
cartoonishly racist Obama mask
protesters chanted lock her up and Heil
Whitmer and some carry Confederate flags
typical fringe anti-government
reactionary crap their goals are in my
opinion not only wrong but stupid the
notion of just opening back up and
getting back to normal is a dangerous
fantasy there is no back to normal until
this pandemic is passed we are already
approaching 70,000 dead americans more
than were lost in all of Vietnam and the
toll continues to climb and by the way
they're also plenty of indications that
that number is actually a dramatic
undercount
of how many have actually perished so to
put it bluntly people don't want to die
they do not want to risk infecting
vulnerable loved ones even if they
believe themselves to be invulnerable
the public data available shows large
majorities of Americans much more
concerned about reopening too early than
in staying closed work actions are
cropping up across the country as
frontline essential workers demand some
level of basic safety in performing
their work functions a lot of attention
that has been paid to the tactics of the
protesters themselves the willingness to
mass gather without social distancing
and in many cases without even wearing
masks no doubt such an activity during
these times is dangerous but actually
that's precisely the point and given the
dire and absolute stakes of the times
we're living through I don't actually
think that those tactics themselves
should be taken off the table in other
words while I think the goals of these
particular protesters are
I do actually believe that the shocking
level of corporate fealty and
destruction of the working class going
on right now merits contemplating
exactly such a radical approach just
think about it as of today those of us
who believe in antitrust and worker
power in any sort of populist economics
have been completely crushed there's
just no other way around it at the very
beginning of this crisis the always well
money connected and organized forces a
big business leptin to action while
small business owners are in many cases
still waiting to get their PPP with all
its attendant red tape and
inefficiencies big business of course
got custom written legislation concierge
loans bespoke tax cuts that they've been
pushing for years and we're now able to
cram through with the new crisis
opportunity cosseted from the Great
Depression like conditions all the big
players will not only come out on the
other side just fine but they can take
advantage of the opportunity presented
to gobble up plenty small medium and
even largest companies in a massive wave
of mergers and acquisitions we are just
now getting some new numbers about
exactly how crushing this wave of small
business destruction will be according
to a poll by the Chamber of Commerce 40%
of America's 30 million small businesses
could close permanently in the next six
months
forty percent now I bet some of you
watching right now are facing exactly
that your little store your service or
your restaurant whatever it was that
you've built up with your dreams and
your sweat putting your entire soul into
it believing that American Dream making
a little space for yourself utterly
decimated filing for PPP watching is all
the cash flows out the door first to the
big guys watching Congress twiddle their
thumbs at home watching the media care
more about some interoffice drama
between Falchi and Trump or whatever
then your entire livelihood and way of
life being destroyed by your own
government this situation isn't only a
disaster for the business owners but
also for the workers and for the
communities that are going to lose much
of their remaining
local vitality workers forced
choose among a few monopolies are gonna
get nothing but crushed and of course
we've covered extensively here the way
essential workers are treated as
completely disposable and the meat
processing plants delivering your
packages bagging your groceries washing
the floors politicians are happy to give
them a pat on the head call them heroes
but they won't do a damn thing to
protect them or compensate them for
risking their lives to keep this society
running the two-tier economy the brutal
inhumanity of our system the
unconscionable inequality the
blood-sucking monopolies all of that has
just been accelerated at a rate I own
estate can even imagine I don't know
what it looks like for 40% of our small
businesses to go under all at once but I
know on the other side is a dystopian
nightmare for workers for small towns
and for small cities so no I'm not going
to condemn the tactics of these
protesters they're weaponizing safety in
the same way frankly that establishment
Dems the Republicans did when they
pushed forward with primary elections in
order to maintain their own political
power or as Mitch McConnell is by
calling the Senate back into session in
order to continue pushing new judges
through they're taking hostages like how
the corporatists were able to get their
4 trillion dollars by taking workers and
small businesses hostage and on the left
well there's real stakes involved in the
burgeoning workers movement if you
compromise the daily luxuries an
on-demand living of the coddled PMC you
will get their attention pretty quick
but why should we see the territory of
the exact sort of radical action like
that being taken in this crisis by the
fringe right mainstream right and
mainstream Dems you'll note every one of
those groups is so far having more
success in accomplishing their aims and
objectives than the populist left while
we're hosting another virtual roundtable
about Medicare for all and writing a
carefully worded op-ed they are willing
to threaten take hostages and put their
own health on the line there's a reason
that we're having much more of a debate
right now about when and how to open
versus when and how the government will
guarantee our basic rights and the
results speak for themselves
saga those numbers around small
businesses are shocking forty percent I
mean America does not look the
same on the other side of him at all I
mean this is what we weren't warned
about from the very beginning and all of
it actually stems down to Congress's
decision to cap the PPP loans because if
they had done an uncapped program then
we wouldn't be in the situation that we
are right now everybody would have
gotten the loans everybody wanted to
continue to make payroll and even now we
still have the opportunity to do that
phased Senate's coming back literally
today we could still do it I'm not gonna
hold my breath and say that it's going
to happen but what you're seeing it's a
disaster because these businesses at the
same time a lot of them the were net
weren't able to get the PPP loan and
even some who do don't necessarily want
to play the role of paying out payroll
to their workers so they're just firing
their workers letting them go on
unemployment and then trying to lobby
the Federal Reserve for excess cash and
what does that give them it gives them
the ability in order to clean house and
then just bring back whomever they want
it was the same thing that happened
during the Great Recession is that
ultimately most of the jobs didn't come
back they came back in a very
differentiated form than when they were
lost in 2008 that is the real disaster
in my view because what you're seeing is
and you know one of the ebbs and flows
the business cycle and all that then I
go competition creative destruction
that's a good thing but in a general
collapse like the one we're in like
today Bloomberg analyst Joe Wiesenthal
pointed out today that in a general
collapse bigger guys are the only ones
who survive and that is the actual
disaster here because as you said
43% of American small businesses closed
that means a two trillion dollar Amazon
Corporation that means two trillion
dollar Walmart corporation that means a
complete nationalized supply chain
beholden to China completely devoid of
any communities I mean you see dollar
stores and all these other communities
right all right these stores that just
suck money out of these distressed
communities and send it to corporate
wherever yeah that they're headquartered
that's the future of America that's a
dystopian dystopian place there's no
interconnectivity within a community
that's just gone it's just all the
money's gonna float in New York LA San
Francisco everybody there is gonna
continue to get way richer and everybody
in the middle just gonna get wiped out I
mean some of you all know this and I've
written about it before I mean it's big
part of my politics was living in the
industrial Midwest in one of the
towns that just been decimated first by
they was the pottery capital of the
world dishes and plates this stuff like
this was all made there that all went
overseas 50s 60s to China right then
there was a steel mill in the next town
over good middle-class jobs and then
that all went away and now you go to
that town and look there I mean this is
not a statement on people there who are
wonderful and lovely I loved living
there but the town itself is so
decimated and it's so heartbreaking of
course you've had massive opioid
addiction of course you've had all of
those problems you would expect and the
thing that crushed me was you go up and
down the Ohio River and it's one town
after another after another that's
exactly the same and so when you look at
that and you see all of these small
businesses just I mean 40 percent in six
months saying they could close
permanently that means all of America
looking like that with a few small
exceptions a few mega met you know
metropolis is giant urban centers that
are fine and even within those you asked
the working-class how they're doing
there and they're still getting crushed
because now they only have monopolies
that they can deal with who can treat
them however they want treat them as
dispose just like right now 900 workers
in a meat processing plant getting
coronavirus because their company
doesn't care to take them to keep them
safe doesn't care to spend the money on
PPE or social distancing which would
slow down productivity doesn't care
treated as disposable their lives
treated as less than you know getting
enough pork on the shelves in time and
making sure that their bottom line stays
where they want it to that is what the
future looks like and so yeah I think
that people need to wrap their heads
around it and keep any to any and all
tactics that make sense that are ethical
in mind because I'll tell you the the
mainstream Democrats and Republicans
here
they took workers and small businesses
hostage at the begin that is why it was
all tied together right so that you
could have you could say we're gonna
give the only way you're even gonna get
these crumbs for workers and small
businesses is if you give us our four
trillion for big business and they were
organized and they got it done right
away these mainstream demson Republic
to push for these primary elections to
go forward they didn't care about
people's health and these protesters
noxious and radical fringe as they are
they don't care about their health and
safety they are going to go out there
and get that what they want and it's
been the populace who have been we'll
get it next time
oh this time we're really on this next
phase 15 that's when we're really gonna
get the good stuff give me a break
you wouldn't withhold your vote on the
giant corporate bailout you didn't
withhold your vote when they pass paid
sick leave and gave this giant loophole
to big business you didn't withhold your
vote on the small business where we got
you know very little in terms of it
still wasn't a sufficient amount in
terms of small business am I really
gonna believe that you're gonna play
hardball this time by the way Mitch
McConnell doesn't even want to pass
another anything so what leverage do you
have there's been hardball played with
all the corporate interests everybody is
aligned with the corporate interests
have played hardball and the populace
have been like we're gonna write an
op-ed we're gonna hold a virtual Town
Hall and these in these things do
nothing and nobody's come out of this as
a hero nobody really has done anything
about it and that's the most distressing
part and you're yeah look I mean these
people they seem angry a lot of people
are upset with their tactics but one of
the mentions that we always talk about
here you cannot demonize people who are
in dire straits you cannot I stopped
people on Twitter viewing these people
are so dumb always you cannot call
people dumb whose livelihoods are on the
lines I mean yes are the tactics
misguided sure in some case should be
yelling at cops in their face
probably not but at the end of the day
if you're losing your business I
understand your plight and I have much
more sympathy for you than a bunch of
blue cheque keyboard warriors who are
calling you stupid because ultimately
the government failed one group right
they failed that group they didn't fail
the professional mint of a professional
managerial class who are all sitting at
home you know drinking drinking coffee
waking up and putting everybody's joking
about putting on sweat pants and what
time of the day I'll have you can't pay
their bills okay and I have much more
sympathy for them than I ever well for
the other side there are a lot of people
that are hurting and my whole point is
just rage rage is an appropriate emotion
yeah
rage is a completely justified emotion
right now do with that what you will
now
sunrising Iowa fourth congressional
district candidate JD Shelton describes
how coronavirus has impacted workers at
meat processing plans something of
course that we have been covering here
they've had a tremendous horrible
outbreak there that's gonna that
conversation when rising continues
[Music]